# 2.0.0 Release Notes

# Heritrix 2.0.0 Release Notes

Heritrix 2.0.0 is [now
available](http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=73833&package_id=254931).

Heritrix 2.0.0 offers an updated user interface, a new settings
framework and configuration file formats, new options for controlling
the ordering of collection of URIs and sites, more options for
remote-controlling a crawl engine, and many other big fixes and
improvements.

## What's New

### For Crawl Operators

The Web UI for administering a crawl is now a separate application from
the 'crawl engine' that actually collects/analyzes/stores information.
As a result, while you can launch the engine and web UI inside the same
Java VM, as previously, you can also launch the Web UI and engine in
different JVMs, even on different machines. Also, one Web UI can
administer multiple local or remote crawl engines. Finally, because the
Web UI communicates with the engine strictly using "JMX" (Java
Management Extensions), anything it can do can also be done by other
JMX-speaking software, such as command-line utilities or alternate crawl
management applications.

The model for configuring the crawler has changed significantly. The
same settings exist, but now are collected on 'sheets', of a different
on-disk format than in Heritrix 1.x. An implicit/virtual sheet
('default') is never actually stored but contains settings from source
code default values. A 'global' sheet collects whole-crawler and all-URL
settings.

Other settings that only apply to some URLs may be collected in any
number of other custom-named sheets, and then mapped to URLs not just by
domain (as in 1.x) but any SURT prefix. A single sheet can be mapped to
many URLs; an URL may have more than one sheet mapped to it. (For
example, a sheet 'slowly' with extra-long politeness delays can be
mapped to sites a.com and b.com, while another sheet 'shallowly' with
small max-hops limits can be mapped to b.com and c.com. Then, b.com will
be crawled both 'slowly' and 'shallowly'.)

Both individual URIs and the queues of URIs within a crawler frontier
may now have an integer '[precedence](Precedence%20Feature%20Notes)'
value assigned to them, via separate URI and queue precedence policies
configured via settings sheets. A URI's precedence affects the order in
which it is collected relative to other URIs in the same queue. A
queue's precedence affects which queues actively provide URIs for
crawling when many queues are available and waiting. Lower numbers mean
earlier (higher ranked) consideration - 1 is intended as the highest
precedence. Policies already included with Heritrix, combined with sheet
override configuration, can achieve a variety of desired prioritizations
of crawl work. As with other crawler components, custom policies can
also be implemented in Java.

### For Developers

Heritrix has been split into subprojects of related (and reusable)
functionality.

The innermost subproject, 'commons', includes web archiving core utility
classes usable by a crawler and other related applications, such as
analysis and access tools.

The next subproject, 'modules', includes crawl-focused modules with some
potential applicability outside a crawler. It requires 'commons'.

The next subproject, 'engine', is a crawler with no user-interface
beyond the JMX remote-control functionality. It requires both 'commons'
and 'modules'.

The next subproject, 'webui', is the web-browser-based user-interface.
Its output is a WAR file that can be run in the same JVM as the crawl
engine, or elsewhere. It requires 'engine', 'modules', and 'archive'.

Many classes have moved or been renamed.

Heritrix 2 is now built with [Maven 2](http://maven.apache.org), and our
[continuous build
system](http://builds.archive.org:8081/continuum/servlet/continuum) has
migrated to [Continuum](http://maven.apache.org/continuum).

This somewhat encumbers usage in Eclipse. We have a guide to setting up
Heritrix inside Eclipse at [Setting up the new Heritrix in
Eclipse](Setting%20up%20the%20new%20Heritrix%20in%20Eclipse). Key points
to remember are: (1) an initial Maven build, either from the
command-line or the M2Eclipse extension, is required to populate your
local Maven repository with necessary 3rd-party-classes; (2) you must
set the M2\_REPO build-path variable for the Eclipse project to find
that local repository; (3) the ctrl-shift-t shortcut for finding a class
by typing its name is helpful for locating classes in whatever
subproejct or package they now reside.

### Known Limitations

Converting 1.x crawl configurations to 2.0 remains a manual process. For
now, we recommend consulting a 1.x order.xml (or various override
settings.xml files) while using the web UI to construct a analogous
crawl configuration. (While a few classes or settings have moved, names
and capabilities remain substantially alike.) We are still collecting
feedback on Heritrix 2 configuration formats and options and expect to
make changes in future releases to ease crawl design, transition from
previous configurations, and archival or the entire crawl configuration.

Heritrix 2 has received very little testing so far on platforms other
than Linux; functionality and support scripts which worked in 1.x will
likely need updating, even if currently included in the distribution. An
issue to note under Windows is that viewing crawl job files/directories
in other programs (including a command-shell) may prevent a runnable job
from moving between states (ready to active, active to completed), as in
Heritrix 2.0 this requires a directory rename. (See
[HER-1477](https://webarchive.jira.com/browse/HER-1477):
<http://webteam.archive.org/jira/browse/HER-1477> .)

Documentation is very limited compared to the 1.x user manual and
developer manual.

The focus for Heritrix 2.0 has been to deploy the new prioritization
features, refactored internals, and settings options. In some cases
lesser-used old functionality has been removed or is temporarily broken.
A few notable areas of removed functionality:

The old specialized Scope classes have been eliminated; there is a
'scope' setting on relevant modules, which always expects a module of
type DecideRule (which includes sequence compositions of DecideRules).

The contributed AdaptiveRevisitFrontier and has not yet been updated for
operation under 2.0.0.

The 2.x settings system has no current analogue to the 'refinements'
feature of Heritrix 1.x.

You can view a complete list of [tracked issues reported in Heritrix
2.0.0 as
released](http://webteam.archive.org/jira/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?reset=true&&pid=10021&version=10033&sorter/field=issuekey&sorter/order=DESC).

If you discover other gaps relative to 1.x, please report them via our
[public issue tracker](http://webteam.archive.org/jira/browse/HER)..

## Getting the 2.0.0 Release

This release may be obtained from our Sourceforge files area:

[Heritrix2
Releases](http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=73833&package_id=254931)

## Getting Started

For operators:

[2.0 Tutorial](2.0%20Tutorial)

For developers:

[Setting up the new Heritrix in
Eclipse](Setting%20up%20the%20new%20Heritrix%20in%20Eclipse)

Documentation for 2.0 is limited compared to 1.x, but a notes on using
new features will be available on the project wiki. See [Precedence
Feature Notes](Precedence%20Feature%20Notes) for information about the
URI and queue prioritization features.

## Resolved Issues

The following tracked issues are recorded as addressed in this 2.0.0
release:

<http://webteam.archive.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?projectId=10021&styleName=Html&version=10033>

type

key

summary

status

Unable to locate JIRA server for this macro. It may be due to
Application Link configuration.

For issues fixed in previous test releases, see:

-   [2.0.0-RC1 Release
    Notes\#ResolvedIssues](2.0.0-RC1-Release-Notes_4199.html#id-2.0.0-RC1ReleaseNotes-ResolvedIssues)
-   [2.0.0-beta Release
    Notes\#ResolvedIssues](2.0.0-beta-Release-Notes_4166.html#id-2.0.0-betaReleaseNotes-ResolvedIssues)
-   [2.0.0-alpha-2 Release
    Notes\#ResolvedIssues](2.0.0-alpha-2-Release-Notes_4000.html#id-2.0.0-alpha-2ReleaseNotes-ResolvedIssues)
-   [2.0.0-alpha-1 Release
    Notes\#ResolvedIssues](2.0.0-alpha-1-Release-Notes_3702.html#id-2.0.0-alpha-1ReleaseNotes-ResolvedIssues)

## Reporting Issues

Bugs and other issues or suggested improvements/features may be
submitted through our [public issue
tracker](http://webteam.archive.org/jira/browse/HER).

The [project discussion
list](http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/archive-crawler/) is hosted at
Yahoo Groups.
