# 2.0.1 Release Notes

# Release Notes - Heritrix 2.0.1 (August 2008)

Heritrix 2.0.1 is a bugfix release on the Heritrix-2 line, including
other small requested or contributed features.

See [Heritrix 2.0.0 Release Notes](2.0.0%20Release%20Notes) for more
info on Heritrix 2.x.

The 2.0.1 release will be available at [the archive-crawler Sourceforge
project](https://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=73833&package_id=254931&release_id=618459&abmode=1).

## Notable Changes

### Support for the 'Crawl-Delay' and 'Allow' robots.txt directives ([HER-1](https://webarchive.jira.com/browse/HER-1))

Heritrix now supports two additional directives in robots.txt files that
were not part of the original specification: the 'Allow' directive to
permit crawling of URI path prefixes that would otherwise be prevented
by shorted 'Disallow' URI path prefixes, and the 'Crawl-Delay' directive
to request a crawler wait a specified number of seconds before
revisiting a site.

The length of a 'Crawl-Delay' respected may be capped by a new Frontier
setting, 'respect-crawl-delay-up-to-secs'. The default for this value is
to respect all Crawl-Delays up to 300 seconds (5 minutes).

### WARCs written as version "WARC/0.18" ([HER-1525](https://webarchive.jira.com/browse/HER-1525))

WARCs are now written with the declared format version "WARC/0.18".
WARC/0.18 is functionally identical to WARC/0.17.

### Replayed content (as for link extraction) better handles non-ISO-8859-1 single-byte encodings ([HER-1506](https://webarchive.jira.com/browse/HER-1506))

A bug related to ByteReplayCharSequence was causing all substrings from
single-byte encoded content to be interpreted as if they were 7-bit
ASCII. For extracting URIs, which usually have non-ASCII characters
percent-encoded, this was likely not a serious problem, but it presented
problems using ByteReplayCharSequence for other content-analysis. The
related classes have been fixed and refactored.

### Extraction of 'speculative' URI strings from Javascript improved ([HER-1277](https://webarchive.jira.com/browse/HER-1277))

When strings considered likely to be URIs are found in Javascript, those
that appear to begin with hostnames or percent-encoded 'http://' will
now be better handled as absolute, rather than relative, URIs.

## Additional contributors

In addition to the [usual
suspects](http://crawler.archive.org/team-list.html), this release
includes contributed fixes or functionality from:

-   Olaf Freyer

## All Tracked Changes

The following 35 tracked issues are recorded as addressed in this 2.0.1
release:

<http://webteam.archive.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?projectId=10021&styleName=Html&version=10041>

type

key

summary

status

Unable to locate JIRA server for this macro. It may be due to
Application Link configuration.
