# 2.0.0-alpha-1 Release Notes

# Heritrix 2.0.0-alpha-1 Release Notes

This is a preview alpha release of a Heritrix version, 2.0.0, with some
major architectural and user-interface changes. It is recommended for
advanced crawl operators and developers who want to gain early
familiarity with and offer feedback for our new directions. It is not
recommended for production crawling, as it has not undergone the usual
level of testing and still has gaps in functionality compared to the
latest official (1.12.1) release. (For one example, the Web UI is not
yet secured by any login challenge.)

## What's New

### For Crawl Operators

The Web UI for administering a crawl is now a separate application from
the 'crawl engine' that actually collects/analyzes/stores information.
As a result, while you can launch the engine and web UI inside the same
Java VM, as previously, you can also launch the Web UI and engine in
different JVMs, even on different machines. Also, one Web UI can
administer multiple local or remote crawl engines. Finally, because the
Web UI communicates with the engine strictly using "JMX" (Java
Management Extensions), anything it can do can also be done by other
JMX-speaking software, such as command-line utilities or alternate crawl
management applications.

The model for configuring the crawler has changed significantly. The
same settings exist, but now are collected on 'sheets', of a different
on-disk format than in Heritrix 1.x. An implicit/virtual sheet
('default') is never actually stored but contains settings from source
code default values. A 'global' sheet collects whole-crawler and all-URL
settings.

Other settings that only apply to some URLs may be collected in any
number of other custom-named sheets, and then mapped to URLs not just by
domain (as in 1.x) but any SURT prefix. A single sheet can be mapped to
many URLs; an URL may have more than one sheet mapped to it. (For
example, a sheet 'slowly' with extra-long politeness delays can be
mapped to sites a.com and b.com, while another sheet 'shallowly' with
small max-hops limits can be mapped to b.com and c.com. Then, b.com will
be crawled both 'slowly' and 'shallowly'.)

### For Developers

Heritrix has been split into subprojects of related (and reusable)
functionality.

The innermost subproject, 'archive-commons', includes web archiving core
utility classes usable by a crawler and other related applications, such
as analysis and access tools.

The next subproject, 'modules', includes crawl-focused modules with some
potential applicability outside a crawler. It requires
'archive-commons'.

The next subproject, 'engine', is a crawler with no user-interface
beyond the JMX remote-control functionality. It requires both
'archive-commons' and 'modules'.

The next subproject, 'webui', is the web-browser-based user-interface.
Its output is a WAR file that can be run in the same JVM as the crawl
engine, or elsewhere. It requires 'engine', 'modules', and
'archive-commons'.

Heritrix 2 is now built with [Maven 2](http://maven.apache.org), and our
[continuous build
system](http://builds.archive.org:8081/continuum/servlet/continuum) has
migrated to [Continuum](http://maven.apache.org/continuum).

This somewhat encumbers usage in Eclipse. We have a guide to setting up
Heritrix inside Eclipse at [Setting up the new Heritrix in
Eclipse](Setting%20up%20the%20new%20Heritrix%20in%20Eclipse). Key points
to remember are: (1) an initial Maven build, either from the
command-line or the M2Eclipse extension, is required to populate your
local Maven repository with necessary 3rd-party-classes; (2) you must
set the M2\_REPO build-path variable for the Eclipse project to find
that loca l repository; (3) the ctrl-shift-t shortcut for finding a
class by typing its name is helpful for locating classes in whatever
subproejct or package they now reside.

## Getting the 2.0.0-alpha-1 Release

This release should be obtained directly from our continuous build box.
The release christened "2.0.0-alpha' is specifically build ID
heritrix-2.0.0-20070719.171117-4-heritrix.

Fetch the appropriate archive file from [this repository
directory](http://builds.archive.org:8080/maven2/org/archive/heritrix/heritrix/2.0.0-SNAPSHOT/):

[heritrix-2.0.0-20070719.171117-4-heritrix.tar.gz](http://builds.archive.org:8080/maven2/org/archive/heritrix/heritrix/2.0.0-SNAPSHOT/heritrix-2.0.0-20070719.171117-4-heritrix.tar.gz)  
[heritrix-2.0.0-20070719.171117-4-heritrix.zip](http://builds.archive.org:8080/maven2/org/archive/heritrix/heritrix/2.0.0-SNAPSHOT/heritrix-2.0.0-20070719.171117-4-heritrix.zip)

You may fetch a later build if available; be aware that often such
'bleeding edge' build box builds have known or unknown problems.

## Getting Started

For operators:

[2.0 Tutorial](2.0%20Tutorial)

For developers:

[Setting up the new Heritrix in
Eclipse](Setting%20up%20the%20new%20Heritrix%20in%20Eclipse)

## Resolved Issues

The following tracked issues are recorded as having been addressed in
this 2.0.0-alpha release:

<http://webteam.archive.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?version=10021&styleName=Html&projectId=10021&Create=Create>

    ** Bug
        * [HER-266] - Remove item from global context should remove dependencies
        * [HER-1152] - Headers should be consistent in webui
        * [HER-1188] - Deadlock risk in WorkQueueFrontier.receive and WorkQueueFrontier.deepestUri and WorkQueueFrontier.next
        * [HER-1197] - input fields in 2.0 web UI 'logs' screen have no effect / don't submit
        * [HER-1198] - surt prefix sheet association overrides not working in crawl or persisting in JVM relaunches
        * [HER-1200] - unlaunched sheets should tolerate out-of-constraint and other illegal values
        * [HER-1201] - 'remove' setting from global sheet shows 'null' rather than true default value
        * [HER-1202] - sheet-edit page fails to display with NPE in Settings.canOverride()
        * [HER-1217] - sheet overrides still don't work for 'slowly' example

    ** Improvement
        * [HER-1176] - make queue-assignment-policy overridable, changeable
        * [HER-1199] - should have at least 2 sample/minimal profiles
        * [HER-1203] - highlight/factor-out must-change values (operator-contact-url, operator-from); adapt to use new constraints
        * [HER-1204] - reduce default max-hops of TransclusionDecideRule to 2

    ** New Feature
        * [HER-1177] - publicsuffix-based HashCrawlMapper reduce-pattern

    ** Task
        * [HER-1187] - 2.0.0-alpha release notes

## Reporting Issues

Bugs and other issues or suggested improvements/features may be
submitted through our [public issue
tracker](http://webteam.archive.org/jira/browse/HER).

The [project discussion
list](http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/archive-crawler/) is hosted at
Yahoo Groups.
